bonuses on our gathering on low-lying
islands they gave birth on see us but
with this platform now gone they need a
new place to haul out and nurse their
young after several days at sea the male
bear finally makes landfall drawn by
pungent smells emanating from the island
by the end of summer the bear has lost
half his weight with the ice long gone
he is forced onto land
in search of food
there will be no easy meals on this
island walruses are the largest seals in
the world they weigh over a ton and are
armed with tusks a metre long
exhausted from his friend the bear must
regain his strength the next day a sea
fog shrouds the island the Wallis's
sense that they're in danger using the
fog as cover the bear approaches the
herd the adults close ranks around their
young presenting a wall of blubber and
high he tests the ban but it stands firm
it appears that the world's largest land
carnivore has met his match
there must be a in the armor
somewhere
not here
this female walrus is shielding her
puppy if he can just prise her off
the bear's claws and teeth can't
penetrate a thick hide
with the herd retreating to water the
bear must move quickly
having failed with one he heads straight
for another
the chance of his first meal in months
is slipping away
he seems increasingly desperate
it's now or never he must avoid the
stabbing tusks if he's the win
the flailing walrus is immensely
powerful and drags the bear away from
the shallows towards the safety of the
herd
it slips from his grasp only at the
height of summer when bears on the verge
of starvation will they risk attacking
such dangerous prey it was a gamble that
this bear took and lost the stab wounds
he received from the walrus are so
severe that he can barely walk
the walruses are calm again seemingly
aware that the injured bear no longer
poses a threat to them or their young
unable to feed this bear will not
survive
if the global climate continues to warm
and the Arctic ice melts sooner each
year it's certain that more bears will
share this fate
you